docs/manual/install/index.rst, before:

================
Installing Qtile
================

Distro Guides
=============

Below are the preferred installation methods for specific distros. If you are
running something else, please see `Installing From Source`_.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    Arch <arch>
    Fedora <fedora>
    Funtoo <funtoo>
    Ubuntu <ubuntu>

Installing From Source
======================

First, you need to install all of Qtile's dependencies (although some are
optional/not needed depending on your Python version, as noted below).

xcffib
------

Qtile uses xcffib_ as an XCB binding, which has its own instructions for
building from source. However, if you'd like to skip building it, you can
install its dependencies, you will need libxcb and libffi with the associated
headers (``libxcb-render0-dev`` and ``libffi-dev`` on Ubuntu), and install it
via PyPI:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install xcffib

.. _xcffib: https://github.com/tych0/xcffib#installation

cairocffi
---------

Qtile uses cairocffi_ with XCB support via xcffib. You'll need ``libcairo2``,
the underlying library used by the binding.  You should be sure before you
install cairocffi that xcffib has been installed, otherwise the needed
cairo-xcb bindings will not be built.  Once you've got the dependencies
installed, you can use the latest version on PyPI:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install cairocffi

.. _cairocffi: https://pythonhosted.org/cairocffi/overview.html

pangocairo
----------

You'll also need ``libpangocairo``, which on Ubuntu can be installed via ``sudo
apt-get install libpangocairo-1.0-0``. Qtile uses this to provide text
rendering (and binds directly to it via cffi with a small in-tree binding).

asyncio/trollius
----------------

Qtile uses the asyncio module as introduced in `PEP 3156`_ for its event loop.
Based on your Python version, there are different ways to install this:

- Python >=3.4: The `asyncio module`_ comes as part of the standard library, so
  there is nothing more to install.
- Python 3.3: This has all the infastructure needed to implement PEP 3156, but
  the asyncio module must be installed from the `Tulip project`_.  This is done
  by calling:

  .. code-block:: bash

      pip install asyncio

  Alternatively, you can install trollius (see next point).
- Python 2 and <=3.2 (and 3.3 without asyncio): You will need to install
  trollius_, which backports the asyncio module functionality to work without
  the infastructure introduced in PEP 3156.  You can install this from PyPI:

  .. code-block:: bash

      pip install trollius

.. _PEP 3156: http://python.org/dev/peps/pep-3156/
.. _asyncio module: https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html
.. _Tulip project: https://code.google.com/p/tulip/
.. _trollius: http://trollius.readthedocs.org/

dbus/gobject
------------

Until someone comes along and writes an asyncio-based dbus library, qtile will
depend on ``python-dbus`` to interact with dbus. This means that if you want
to use things like notification daemon or mpris widgets, you'll need to
install python-gobject and python-dbus. Qtile will run fine without these,
although it will emit a warning that some things won't work.

Qtile
-----

With the dependencies in place, you can now install qtile:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone git://github.com/qtile/qtile.git
    cd qtile
    sudo python setup.py install

Stable versions of Qtile can be installed from PyPI:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install qtile

As long as the necessary libraries are in place, this can be done at any point,
however, it is recommended that you first install xcffib to ensure the
cairo-xcb bindings are built (see above).

Commit message:

Drop official support for Python 3.2
We should still be able to run on 3.2, but current versions of pip made
breaking changes to stop supporting 3.2.  There are several things we
can change (one noted here, but also we can use `u''` strings rather
than `six.u()`.

Honestly, I don't know how many people run old versions of Python 3,
especially as far back as 3.2, we could probably safely drop 3.3, and
thus not need to support trollius on Python 3.

docs/manual/install/index.rst, after:

================
Installing Qtile
================

Distro Guides
=============

Below are the preferred installation methods for specific distros. If you are
running something else, please see `Installing From Source`_.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    Arch <arch>
    Fedora <fedora>
    Funtoo <funtoo>
    Ubuntu <ubuntu>

Installing From Source
======================

First, you need to install all of Qtile's dependencies (although some are
optional/not needed depending on your Python version, as noted below).

Note that Python 3 versions 3.3 and newer are currently supported and tested.
Python 3.2 should still work with Qtile, however the latest versions of pip
have dropped support for Qtile, so you will need to either use an older
version, or install all the required packages by running the respective
``setup.py`` scripts.

xcffib
------

Qtile uses xcffib_ as an XCB binding, which has its own instructions for
building from source. However, if you'd like to skip building it, you can
install its dependencies, you will need libxcb and libffi with the associated
headers (``libxcb-render0-dev`` and ``libffi-dev`` on Ubuntu), and install it
via PyPI:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install xcffib

.. _xcffib: https://github.com/tych0/xcffib#installation

cairocffi
---------

Qtile uses cairocffi_ with XCB support via xcffib. You'll need ``libcairo2``,
the underlying library used by the binding.  You should be sure before you
install cairocffi that xcffib has been installed, otherwise the needed
cairo-xcb bindings will not be built.  Once you've got the dependencies
installed, you can use the latest version on PyPI:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install cairocffi

.. _cairocffi: https://pythonhosted.org/cairocffi/overview.html

pangocairo
----------

You'll also need ``libpangocairo``, which on Ubuntu can be installed via ``sudo
apt-get install libpangocairo-1.0-0``. Qtile uses this to provide text
rendering (and binds directly to it via cffi with a small in-tree binding).

asyncio/trollius
----------------

Qtile uses the asyncio module as introduced in `PEP 3156`_ for its event loop.
Based on your Python version, there are different ways to install this:

- Python >=3.4: The `asyncio module`_ comes as part of the standard library, so
  there is nothing more to install.
- Python 3.3: This has all the infastructure needed to implement PEP 3156, but
  the asyncio module must be installed from the `Tulip project`_.  This is done
  by calling:

  .. code-block:: bash

      pip install asyncio

  Alternatively, you can install trollius (see next point).
- Python 2 and <=3.2 (and 3.3 without asyncio): You will need to install
  trollius_, which backports the asyncio module functionality to work without
  the infastructure introduced in PEP 3156.  You can install this from PyPI:

  .. code-block:: bash

      pip install trollius

.. _PEP 3156: http://python.org/dev/peps/pep-3156/
.. _asyncio module: https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html
.. _Tulip project: https://code.google.com/p/tulip/
.. _trollius: http://trollius.readthedocs.org/

dbus/gobject
------------

Until someone comes along and writes an asyncio-based dbus library, qtile will
depend on ``python-dbus`` to interact with dbus. This means that if you want
to use things like notification daemon or mpris widgets, you'll need to
install python-gobject and python-dbus. Qtile will run fine without these,
although it will emit a warning that some things won't work.

Qtile
-----

With the dependencies in place, you can now install qtile:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone git://github.com/qtile/qtile.git
    cd qtile
    sudo python setup.py install

Stable versions of Qtile can be installed from PyPI:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install qtile

As long as the necessary libraries are in place, this can be done at any point,
however, it is recommended that you first install xcffib to ensure the
cairo-xcb bindings are built (see above).
