docs/manual/hacking.rst, before:

================
Hacking on Qtile
================

Requirements
============

Any reasonably recent version of these should work, so you can probably just
install them from your package manager.

* `Nose <http://nose.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_
* `Xephyr <http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/Xephyr>`_
* ``xeyes`` and ``xclock``

On ubuntu, this can be done with ``sudo apt-get install python-nose
xserver-xephyr x11-apps``.

Using Xephyr and the test suite
===============================

Qtile has a very extensive test suite, using the Xephyr nested X server. When
tests are run, a nested X server with a nested instance of Qtile is fired up,
and then tests interact with the Qtile instance through the client API. The
fact that we can do this is a great demonstration of just how completely
scriptable Qtile is. In fact, Qtile is designed expressly to be scriptable
enough to allow unit testing in a nested environment.

The Qtile repo includes a tiny helper script to let you quickly pull up a
nested instance of Qtile in Xephyr, using your current configuration.
Run it from the top-level of the repository, like this:

.. code-block:: bash

  ./scripts/xephyr

In practice, the development cycle looks something like this:

1. make minor code change
#. run appropriate test: ``nosetests --tests=test_module``
#. GOTO 1, until hackage is complete
#. run entire test suite: ``nosetests``
#. commit

Second X Session
================

Some users prefer to test Qtile in a second, completely separate X session:
Just switch to a new tty and run ``startx`` normally to use the ``~/.xinitrc``
X startup script.

It's likely though that you want to use a different, customized startup script
for testing purposes, for example ``~/.config/qtile/xinitrc``. You can do so by
launching X with:

.. code-block:: bash

  startx ~/.config/qtile/xinitrc

``startx`` deals with multiple X sessions automatically. If you want to use
``xinit`` instead, you need to first copy ``/etc/X11/xinit/xserverrc`` to
``~/.xserverrc``; when launching it, you have to specify a new session number:

.. code-block:: bash

  xinit ~/.config/qtile/xinitrc -- :1

Examples of custom X startup scripts are available in `qtile-examples
<https://github.com/qtile/qtile-examples>`_.

Coding style
============

While not all of our code follows `PEP8 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`_,
we do try to adhere to it where possible. All new code should be PEP8 compliant.

The ``make lint`` command will run a linter with our configuration over libqtile
to ensure your patch complies with reasonable formatting constraints. We also
request that git commit messages follow the
`standard format <http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html>`_.

Deprecation policy
==================

When a widget API is changed, you should deprecate the change using
``libqtile.widget.base.deprecated`` to warn users, in additon to adding it to
the appropriate place in the changelog. We will typically remove deprecated
APIs one tag after they are deprecated.

Testing
=======

Of course, your patches should also pass the unit tests as well (i.e.
``make check``). These will be run by travis-ci on every pull request so you
can see whether or not your contribution passes.

Resources
=========

Here are a number of resources that may come in handy:

* `Inter-Client Conventions Manual <http://tronche.com/gui/x/icccm/>`_
* `Extended Window Manager Hints <http://standards.freedesktop.org/wm-spec/wm-spec-latest.html>`_
* `A reasonable basic Xlib Manual <http://tronche.com/gui/x/xlib/>`_

Commit message:

Add a doc blurb about caputring an xtrace

docs/manual/hacking.rst, after:

================
Hacking on Qtile
================

Requirements
============

Any reasonably recent version of these should work, so you can probably just
install them from your package manager.

* `Nose <http://nose.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_
* `Xephyr <http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/Xephyr>`_
* ``xeyes`` and ``xclock``

On ubuntu, this can be done with ``sudo apt-get install python-nose
xserver-xephyr x11-apps``.

Using Xephyr and the test suite
===============================

Qtile has a very extensive test suite, using the Xephyr nested X server. When
tests are run, a nested X server with a nested instance of Qtile is fired up,
and then tests interact with the Qtile instance through the client API. The
fact that we can do this is a great demonstration of just how completely
scriptable Qtile is. In fact, Qtile is designed expressly to be scriptable
enough to allow unit testing in a nested environment.

The Qtile repo includes a tiny helper script to let you quickly pull up a
nested instance of Qtile in Xephyr, using your current configuration.
Run it from the top-level of the repository, like this:

.. code-block:: bash

  ./scripts/xephyr

In practice, the development cycle looks something like this:

1. make minor code change
#. run appropriate test: ``nosetests --tests=test_module``
#. GOTO 1, until hackage is complete
#. run entire test suite: ``nosetests``
#. commit

Second X Session
================

Some users prefer to test Qtile in a second, completely separate X session:
Just switch to a new tty and run ``startx`` normally to use the ``~/.xinitrc``
X startup script.

It's likely though that you want to use a different, customized startup script
for testing purposes, for example ``~/.config/qtile/xinitrc``. You can do so by
launching X with:

.. code-block:: bash

  startx ~/.config/qtile/xinitrc

``startx`` deals with multiple X sessions automatically. If you want to use
``xinit`` instead, you need to first copy ``/etc/X11/xinit/xserverrc`` to
``~/.xserverrc``; when launching it, you have to specify a new session number:

.. code-block:: bash

  xinit ~/.config/qtile/xinitrc -- :1

Examples of custom X startup scripts are available in `qtile-examples
<https://github.com/qtile/qtile-examples>`_.

Capturing an ``xtrace``
=======================

Occasionally, a bug will be low level enough to require an ``xtrace`` of
Qtile's conversations with the X server. To capture one of these, create an
``xinitrc`` or similar file with:

.. code-block:: bash

  exec xtrace qtile >> ~/.qtile.log

This will put the xtrace output in Qtile's logfile as well. You can then
demonstrate the bug, and paste the contents of this file into the bug report.

Coding style
============

While not all of our code follows `PEP8 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`_,
we do try to adhere to it where possible. All new code should be PEP8 compliant.

The ``make lint`` command will run a linter with our configuration over libqtile
to ensure your patch complies with reasonable formatting constraints. We also
request that git commit messages follow the
`standard format <http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html>`_.

Deprecation policy
==================

When a widget API is changed, you should deprecate the change using
``libqtile.widget.base.deprecated`` to warn users, in additon to adding it to
the appropriate place in the changelog. We will typically remove deprecated
APIs one tag after they are deprecated.

Testing
=======

Of course, your patches should also pass the unit tests as well (i.e.
``make check``). These will be run by travis-ci on every pull request so you
can see whether or not your contribution passes.

Resources
=========

Here are a number of resources that may come in handy:

* `Inter-Client Conventions Manual <http://tronche.com/gui/x/icccm/>`_
* `Extended Window Manager Hints <http://standards.freedesktop.org/wm-spec/wm-spec-latest.html>`_
* `A reasonable basic Xlib Manual <http://tronche.com/gui/x/xlib/>`_
