=======================
Qtile 0.6 release notes
=======================

*May 11th, 2013*

Download `qtile-0.6.tar.gz <https://github.com/qtile/qtile/archive/v0.6.tar.gz>`_

Config Breakage!
================

This release breaks your config file in several ways:

* The Textbox widget no longer takes a ``name`` positional parameter,
  since it was redundant; you can use the ``name`` kwarg to define it.
* manager.Group (now _Group) is not used to configure groups any more;
  config.Group replaces it. For simple configurations (i.e.
  Group("a") type configs), this should be a drop in replacement.
  config.Group also provides many more options for showing and hiding
  groups, assigning windows to groups by default, etc.
* The Key, Screen, Drag, and Click objects have moved from the manager
  module to the config module.
* The Match object has moved from the dgroups module to the config
  module.
* The addgroup hook now takes two parameters: the qtile object and the
  name of the group added:
  ::
      @hook.subscribe
      def addgroup_hook(qtile, name):
          pass
* The nextgroup and prevgroup commands are now on Screen instead of
  Group.

For most people with basic configs, you should be able to just:

    ``sed -i -e 's/libqtile.manager/libqtile.config/' config.py``

...dgroups users will need to go to a bit more work, but hopefully
configuration will be much simpler now for new users.

Changelog
=========

Features
--------

* New widgets: task list,
* New layout: Matrix
* Added ability to drag and drop groups on GroupBox
* added "next urgent window" command
* added font shadowing on widgets
* maildir widget supports multiple folders
* new config option log_level to set logging level (any of
  logging.{DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL})
* add option to battery widget to hide while level is above a certain
  amount
* vastly simplify configuration of dynamic groups
* MPD widget now supports lots of metadata options

Bug fixes
---------

* don't crash on restart when the config has errors
* save layout and selected group state on restart
* varous EWMH properties implemented correctly
* fix non-black systray icon backgrounds
* drastically reduce the number of timeout_add calls in most widgets
* restart on RandR attach events to allow for new screens
* log level defaults to ERROR
* default config options are no longer initialized when users define
  their corresponding option (preventing duplicate widgets, etc.)
* don't try to load config in qsh (not used)
* fix font alignment across Textbox based widgets

